Q1. What is an API? Give an example, where an API is used in real life.

ANS:- APIs are used in web applications to connect user-facing front ends with critical back-end functionality and data.
      APIs are used to deliver services such as Spotify and Netflix. APIs are used by automakers such as Tesla to provide software upgrades.
      
Q2. Give advantages and disadvantages of using API.

ANS:- Advantages of using APIs are:
a. Seamless Integration
b. Increased Efficiency
c.Improved Customer Experience
d.Reduced Costs

Disadvantages of using APIs are:
a.Increased Complexity
b.Limited Functionality
c.Dependency on Third Party Services
d.Security and Privacy Risks


Q3. What is a Web API? Differentiate between API and Web API.

ANS:-  A Web API is an application programming interface for the Web.

Difference between API and Web API:-
a. Web service is a collection of open source protocols and standards used for exchanging data between systems or applications, whereas API is a software interface that allows two applications to interact with each other without any user involvement.

b.Web service supports only HTTP protocol, whereas API supports HTTP/HTTPS and TCP/IP protocol.

c.Web service is used for REST, SOAP, and XML-RPC for communication, while API is used for any style of communication.

d.Web service supports XML, while API supports XML and JSON.


Q4. Explain REST and SOAP Architecture. Mention shortcomings of SOAP.

ANS:-The Representational State Transfer (REST) architectural style is a worldview that elevates information into a first-class element of architectures. REST allows us to achieve the architectural properties of performance, scalability, generality, simplicity, modifiability, and extensibility.

The SOAP web services architecture is based on interactions between three components: a service provider, a service requester, and an optional service registry.

Shotcomings of SOAP are:
Security
Messaging
Transactions
Metadata, etc.


Q5. Differentiate between REST and SOAP.

ANS:- Difference between REST and SOAP are:

a. SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol whereas REST stands for Representational State Transfer.

b. SOAP is a protocol whereas REST is an architectural pattern.

c. SOAP uses service interfaces to expose its functionality to client applications while REST uses Uniform Service locators to access to the components on the   hardware device.

d. SOAP needs more bandwidth for its usage whereas REST doesn’t need much bandwidth.

e. Comparing SOAP vs REST API, SOAP only works with XML formats whereas REST work with plain text, XML, HTML and JSON.

f. SOAP cannot make use of REST whereas REST can make use of SOAP.

